Update docs for arrival of the Astronomer Cloud CLI (#331)
astronomer/docs: cloud/cli-release-notes.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Astronomer Cloud CLI'
title: 'Astronomer Cloud CLI Release Notes'
id: cli-release-notes
description: Release notes for the Astronomer Cloud CLI.
---

## Overview

This document provides a summary of all changes made to the [Astronomer Cloud CLI](install-cli.md). For general product release notes, go to [Astronomer Cloud Release Notes](release-notes.md).

If you have any questions or a bug to report, don't hesitate to reach out to us via Slack or Intercom. We're here to help.

## Astronomer Cloud CLI v1.0.0

> Release date: February 1, 2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: February 3, 2022
```

### Introducing the Astronomer Cloud CLI

> Astronomer Cloud now offers the Astronomer Cloud CLI (`astrocloud`): a global, dedicated CLI for managing your data pipelines both locally and on the Cloud.
> 
> This new CLI tool can be installed via Homebrew and is a direct replacement to the executable CLI (`./astro`) of previous versions. Astronomer Cloud CLI commands take the form of:
> 
> ```sh
> astrocloud <command> # E.g. `astrocloud dev start`
> ```
> 
> We strongly recommend that all Astronomer Cloud users [install the Astronomer Cloud CLI](install-cli.md) and delete the executable CLI as soon as possible.
> 
> In addition to being a complete CLI tool, the Astronomer Cloud CLI includes several improvements to both local project development and Astronomer Cloud management. These changes are summarized in the following sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Astronomer Cloud CLI (`astrocloud`) is now generally available as the official command-line tool for Astronomer Cloud. It is a direct replacement of the previously released `/.astro` executable.

The Astronomer Cloud CLI sets the foundation for more robust functionality in the future and includes several significant improvements to both the local development experience as well as use cases specific to Astronomer Cloud. These changes are summarized in the following sections.

The Astronomer Cloud CLI can be installed via Homebrew. Commands take the form of:

```sh
astrocloud <command> # E.g. `astrocloud dev start`
```

We strongly recommend that all users [install the Astronomer Cloud CLI](install-cli.md) and delete the `astro` executable as soon as possible. The release of the Astronomer Cloud CLI will not impact existing Deployments and DAGs. As of February 2022, the previously released `/.astro` CLI will no longer be maintained by our team in the context of Astronomer Cloud.

```

Author: I'm just going to update the last sentence slightly to make it clear that there's no "automatic" impact on your existing Deployments.

Reviewer: not sure I follow the "automatic" vs not - I think it's just "there will be no impact" - automatic or otherwise - there wouldn't be a "manual" impact either?

> ### Improved Authentication Flow

Reviewer: It might be nice to do a GIF here - what do we think? Would actually include this in our docs as well, not just release notes.

Author: Huh thought I answered something about this elsewhere - I tried making a set up for this, but I had trouble anonymizing it. If we write an issue, I can spend some time setting up a separate Mac user/ Astro login so that my mac info/ login isn't floating out there on the web.

Also - if we do any reskinning here, this .gif is gonna look out of date pretty fast. Should we just wait for the rebrand before embarking on any major asset creation?

Reviewer: Yea, that's totally fine - can you just create a GH issue on this so we don't forget? I'm cool to move forward with this PR without it

> ### Improved Authentication Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New Authentication Flow
```

> Authenticating to Astronomer Cloud via CLI consists solely of a single login via the Astronomer UI. When you run `astrocloud auth login`, your web browser automatically opens to an Astronomer UI login screen. After confirming that the login process was triggered from your CLI, you can log in as you would via web browser. And if you're already logged in via the web browser, then you are automatically authenticated via the CLI.
> 
> The token generated by these logins lasts longer than before. As long as you remained logged in via the UI, expect that you will have to authenticate via the CLI only once every few months.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authenticating to Astronomer Cloud via the Astronomer CLI has been significantly simplified. Instead of forcing the user to copy paste a token from a browser, our improved authentication flow consists solely of a single login via the Astronomer UI.

When you run `astrocloud auth login`, your web browser automatically opens to an Astronomer UI login screen. Once you confirm that the login process was triggered from your command line, you can log in. If you're already logged in via the web browser, then you are automatically authenticated via the CLI.

Notably, the Astronomer CLI is built with refresh tokens and does not require users to re-authenticate every 24 hours. As long as you remain authenticated via the Astronomer UI, your session via the Astronomer CLI will remain valid. Expect that you will be asked to authenticate to the Astronomer CLI only once every few months instead of on a daily basis.
```

@sunkickr Would be good to have a technical explanation here - what triggers a user to have to log in again via CLI? Do you have to re-auth to UI within every 24 hours or something like that? this should also go beyond release notes - maybe in the `astro auth login` page?

Author: Language in the first paragraph feels a bit harsh on the previous login. I know it's much better than before, but let's foreground the improvements instead of starting off with how it used to be.

Reviewer 2: I am pretty sure the UI uses refresh tokens too. You would need to re-auth when the refresh token expires which happens every couple months. A refresh token may also expire if a users permissions dramatically changed Auth0 wasn't really clear on that. I think they mean if a user loses access to something

Reviewer: Tweaked wording here in a different comment line - I agree on not being too harsh, but for the context of release notes I do think a "before" and "after" is important

### Improved Local Development

Astronomer Cloud CLI v1.0.0 includes several improvements to the local development experience:

- You can now run `astrocloud dev start` with Docker Buildkit enabled. This resolves a [common issue](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/buildkit-not-supported-by-daemon-error-command-docker-build-t-airflow-astro-bcb837-airflow-latest-failed-failed-to-execute-cmd-exit-status-1/857) where users with Docker Buildkit enabled could not run this command.

> - After running `astrocloud dev start`, the CLI now shows you the the health status of your containers as they spin up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After running `astrocloud dev start`, the CLI now shows you the status of all Airflow Docker containers as they are created on your local machine.
```

@sunkickr Was this not happening before? Is this not the 1/3 > 2/3 > 3/3 thing?

## Astronomer Cloud CLI v1.0.0

Release date: February 1, 2022

### Introducing the Astronomer Cloud CLI

The Astronomer Cloud CLI (`astrocloud`) is now generally available as the official command-line tool for Astronomer Cloud. It is a direct replacement of the previously released `/.astro` executable.

The Astronomer Cloud CLI sets the foundation for more robust functionality in the future and includes several significant improvements to both the local development experience as well as use cases specific to Astronomer Cloud. These changes are summarized in the following sections.

The Astronomer Cloud CLI can be installed via Homebrew. Commands take the form of:

```sh
astrocloud <command> # E.g. `astrocloud dev start`
```

We strongly recommend that all users [install the Astronomer Cloud CLI](install-cli.md) and delete the `astro` executable as soon as possible. As of February 2022, the executable will no longer be maintained by our team in the context of Astronomer Cloud. With that said, the release of the Astronomer Cloud CLI does not have any automatic impact on your existing Deployments or DAGs.

### Improved Authentication Flow

> Authenticating to Astronomer Cloud via CLI consists solely of a single login via the Astronomer UI. When you run `astrocloud auth login`, your web browser now automatically opens to an Astronomer UI login screen. After confirming that the login process was triggered from your CLI, you can log in. If you're already logged in via the web browser, then you are automatically authenticated via the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authenticating to Astronomer Cloud via the CLI no longer requires manually passing authentication tokens and instead consists of a simple, browser-based login process.

When you run `astrocloud auth login`, a new page in your web browser automatically opens to the Astronomer UI login screen. This screen will first ask you to confirm that the login process was triggered from the CLI and then allow you to log in. If you were already logged to the Astronomer UI in a previous session, then you will be automatically authenticated via the CLI without being prompted again.
```

> When you run `astrocloud auth login`, your web browser automatically opens to an Astronomer UI login screen. Once you confirm that the login process was triggered from your command line, you can log in. If you're already logged in via the web browser, then you are automatically authenticated via the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Notably, the Astronomer CLI is built with refresh tokens and does not require users to re-authenticate every 24 hours. As long as you remain authenticated via the Astronomer UI, your session via the Astronomer CLI will remain valid. Expect that you will be asked to authenticate to the Astronomer CLI only once every few months instead of on a daily basis.

### Improved Local Development

Astronomer Cloud CLI v1.0.0 includes several improvements to the local development experience:

> - You can now run `astrocloud dev start` with Docker Buildkit enabled. This resolves a [common issue](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/buildkit-not-supported-by-daemon-error-command-docker-build-t-airflow-astro-bcb837-airflow-latest-failed-failed-to-execute-cmd-exit-status-1/857) where users with Docker Buildkit enabled could not run this command.
> - After running `astrocloud dev start`, the CLI now shows you the status of all Airflow Docker containers as they are created on your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now run `astrocloud dev start` without having to disable [Docker Buildkit](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/build_enhancements/). This resolves a [common issue](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/buildkit-not-supported-by-daemon-error-command-docker-build-t-airflow-astro-bcb837-airflow-latest-failed-failed-to-execute-cmd-exit-status-1/857) where users with Docker Buildkit enabled could not run this command.
- After running `astrocloud dev start`, the CLI shows you the status of all Airflow Docker containers as they are created on your local machine. Now, it's easier to know that if the Airflow UI is unavailable, it's likely because the Airflow Webserver container is still spinning up.
```

Reviewer: @sunkickr Does it actually list the status of all containers, or is this just the Webserver feedback?

Reviewer 2: just webserver but the webserver is dependent on postgres and scheduler containers

Author: Constance mentioned in the equivalent Enterprise release notes that it might be better to frame the Buildkit as a positive (enable Buildkit vs. don't disable it)

### Additional Improvements

> - `astrocloud deploy` now shows a list of your Deployments organized by when each Deployment was created.

Reviewer 2: It was actually a random order

Release date: October 15, 2021

- This release contains changes exclusively related to the Astronomer Cloud CLI developer experience.

> ## v1.0.0

Reviewer: So that versioning doesn't get confusing - is it worth renaming earlier sections with -

- `## v1.0.0 (astro)`
- `## v.1.0.1 (astro`

Or something like that?
